In this video,
I'll show you how to request the service
from a messaging application
already installed on your phone, to send
a text composed in your own application.
So we'll be using the example
provided by the "Block 8" application.
In this application,
the user types in a message here.
[SOUND] And
when he clicks the send button,
the messaging app of the phone opens and
you can see that the text is already set.
And when you click the send button
the message is sent to the other phone.
Start a new Android studio project,
call the application Block08, click Next.
Next pick an empty activity,
click Next, and Finish.
Then start by designing the graphical user
interface in the activity_main.xml file.
I remove the existing TextView,
and I go on the Design view.
And I'll add a multi-line text
and a button, okay.
Let's configure these two views now.
The button will read "send", and
we will call it the "button_send".
Okay, and onClick
We want to call a method called "sendMessage"
"sendMessage", okay.
And this view here, we want it larger.
This'll be our EditText message.
Let's change the id,
"EditText_message"
And to make it more clear for
the users at this space is dedicated to
typing the message,
we can add a hint like this.
android:hint="type your message".
So this will be displayed on the screen
and as soon as the user clicks the area,
message will disappear and
he can type in his own text, okay.
That's how it would look.
Now, let's define this "sendMessage"
method that we've associated
with the send button.
So, I move to MainActivity.java.
And here I create a public
void method named
sendMessage, and
it takes a View as a parameter.
Okay, so basically what we
need to do here is to retrieve
the text typed in by the user
in the edit text and
then transmit it to an application
which is able to send SMS messages.
So first let's retrieve
the text from the EditView.
So we create a variable called "message"
to hold the text entered by the user.
So first I need to retrieve the View.
I can use a
"findViewById(R.id.editText_message)"
So, this's an EditText. Okay.
From this EditText
I can call the getText method.
And cast that into a String.
Okay now I've retrieved
the text typed in by the user.
Okay, so now I need to pass this
information to another activity
which will send the message.
So let's first create an Intent for
this other activity.
And let's call it "smsIntent".
I need to pass some information
to the next activity,
I need to pass the message
which was typed in by the user.
So I use the putExtra method to do that,
smsIntent.putExtra,
and here I first need to
specify the key of the extra,
so that will be "sms_body".
And then the value,
which is the message in our case.
And then I can just start the activity,
okay.
Well, of course, this is not valid yet,
because, we've declared the Intent
smsIntent but we haven't created it yet.
So, we need some kind of new Intent
here in order to create the object.
Now, we have two possibilities:
We can either develop our own activity,
able to send messages across a network,
or we can rely on existing
applications on our phone,
which are already able to send messages.
And that's what we will do here.
But a difference between what we're
going to do, and what we've done before,
is that before we specified explicitly
which application we wanted to start.
Rather here, we will just say, okay,
I want to start an activity which is able
to send messages, but
I don't give a specific name of an activity.
The system will then
look up on the phone and
list all the applications which declare
that they are capable of sending messages.
And then the user will be presented,
maybe, with a list, and he'll have to
choose one of the applications, and then
this application will be started by the system.
So here, I need to create an explicit,
implicit sorry, an implicit intent.
So I don't mention a specific a name,
I just say that I want something
that's able to perform the ACTION_SENDTO.
And this intent requires
to provide a destination.
Okay, to whom are we sending?
So let's create a destination and
it should be a Uri, "destination".
And you know, in our case we will be
sending it to a second emulator.
So let me show you. I've got
2 emulators started already.
You see that here the first one is 5554,
and the second one is 5556,
so I want to send the message
from this one to this one.
So destination is 5556.
Of course, in your real application,
you will put a real phone number.
5, 5, 5, 6.
I forgot the capital here, okay.
So now let's try that on the phone,
on the emulator.
So I want to start taht on the first one.
So I click here, the hint will disappear
when I start typing my message.
Hello!
How are you?
Okay, when I'm done with my message,
I can click Send.
And here, I'm directed to
the application able to send messages.
And you see that the message is
already set here in the typing area.
And I can just click the send button.
And here on the second phone you see
that the message has been received.
In this video I've shown you how to request
service from a messaging application.
First you need to create an implicit
Intent for the ACTION_SENDTO capability.
Doing new Intent(Intent.ACTION_SENDTO, and
then you provide the Uri of the destination:
"smsto:" and then the phone number.
After that the system will find
all the applications which have
declared to offer this capability.
And if there are multiple candidates,
then the user will be asked to pick one,
then you can use this
intent as any others.
Using the putExtra to pass
information to the intent.
And using startActivity to start it.